---
layout: post
title: "GSoC 2022 - Harp pedalling week 11"
tags: gsoc music
---

Hi,
As we're getting to the end of GSoC, I spent this week tidying up and making changes based on code reviews.  The largest change I made was how pedal diagrams were accessed in the score by the proofreading function and other diagrams - eg. for updating the text of a diagram further ahead in the score based on a change earlier.  This was previously done by looping through all elements of a score until a diagram is found.  This is being done for all diagrams **and** noteheads which will not scale well.  Instead, upon adding the diagram to the score, a pointer is added to a map of ticks.  This map has a few functions to return the diagram currently in effect at a given tick, the previous diagram to calculate changes and the next diagram.  This is a much more efficient way of doing things.  
I have trialled placing this map in the `Part` class.  Equivalent maps for key signature, time signature and clefs are stored in the `Staff` class, but we want the diagram to apply to a grand stave.  I'm hoping this won't cause any issues and seems to work at the moment.

## Next Steps
I need to receive some feedback on my changes in the notation module - this contains the whole UI so I'm anticipating quite a few changes.  Then, I'll just need to finalise placement and UI layout with small changes to distances.  

Keep up to date with the project below:
- [My fork of MuseScore](https://github.com/miiizen/MuseScore/tree/harp-pedal-ui)
- [This blog on MuseScore.org](https://musescore.org/en/user/3773138/blog)